Total beginner's guide


This program is not a digital audio workstation, plug-in host, video
editor or anything like that. It does not make sound and it does not
process sound in any way. It lets you arrange notes and phrases into
a song and send the data to other programs or hardware via the MIDI
interface.

The receiver that gets this data can use it to generate sounds at
the desired time, pitch, volume, and pan. Many other aspects of
the performance can be specified in the MIDI data. Sequencers
generally allow you to schedule any of these such MIDI messages, but 
their responsibility is not to specify the exact audio presentation.

Computer music gurus historically have used a combination of hardware
synthesizers and computer programs connected with MIDI to generate the 
sounds for the performance. Since you are a total beginner, like me, I 
will assume you don't have any cool hardware, and I will focus on how 
to use only software to get you set up to start making rad music.

There are many many freely available synthesizers and samplers which
you can connect to the sequencer to play your tunes. Here is a list
of popular synths for Linux that support JACK audio.

Timidity++ - plays GUS patches
Fluidsynth - plays soundfonts
ZynAddSubFX - realtime software synth
AlsaModularSynth - modular synth emulator
Smack - drum synth
Csound - sound and instrument language
SuperCollider - another language
Hydrogen - drum machine
Specimen - plays samples
Common Music - music composition environment
Ingen - modular audio processing system


Once you have one or more of these installed and working (the
details of doing that are not covered here), you need to be
able to connect them to the sequencer. JACK comes with command
line utilities to perform this operation, but it is much
easier if you use a graphical tool to do it for you. Here is
a list of programs to manage your JACK connections.

Patchage - connect jack clients
Qjackctl - same thing with many more features
Qjackconnect - simpler program for qt3

NOTE that many programs for linux audio use alsa sequencer for
midi. JACK allows you to connect to these programs as long as
you run jackd with the -X seq option.



Now you have everything necessary to start making awesome tunes.
At some point you may want to save your music to disk perhaps
to be compressed into an ogg vorbis file or some such. Here
is a list of JACK programs which will accomplish this for you.

JAmin - full featured audio mastering suite
SoX - audio swiss army knife



For more linux audio applications just go to this website
http://apps.linuxaudio.org/





