Song View Widgets

1 pattern block arranger - this canvas area allows you to create, move, resize, delete, copy, 
join, split, recolor, mute and unmute blocks, among other things.

2 song timeline - it shows you where in the song you are putting blocks. Use the mouse buttons 
to change the loop endpoints and change the song position.

3 track info panel - contains a lot of info about tracks. Press the + button to toggle more 
track settings.

4 track selector - the piano keys next to a track means that recording and keyboard input will 
use this track.

5 track name - you can put whatever you want here. epichord uses fltk2's unicode support.

6 track settings - these widgets display the track settings and allow you to edit their values. 
Volume, pan, solo, and mute widgets are displayed by default. Press + at the top of the track 
info panel to toggle the program, bank, channel, and port settings. Drag your mouse on a widget 
to change the value or use the mouse wheel.

7 color tool - when the color tool button is activated, your mouse will edit the color of 
blocks. Drag on a block to change the color. Click on a block to copy color. Middle click on a 
block to paste color. Right click on a block to paste color on the entire channel. Your last 
used color will be used as a basis for future block insertions.

8 unclone tool - when blocks are copied the default behavior is to make clones. Any changes to 
a clone block will affect the pattern in other clones. Use the clone tool to make a clone unique 
with its own copy of a pattern.

9 join tool - after pressing join, click on two blocks that are adjacent. These blocks will be 
joined. If either are clones, they will be uncloned first.

10 split tool - after pressing split, click on a block at a position you want to split it. The 
block will be split into two new blocks. If it is a clone it will be uncloned first.



Global Widgets

1 play/pause - Press this to make the sequencer start playing the song from the current play 
position. Press it again to pause playback at current play position. Pause sends all notes off 
and all sound off midi messages.

2 stop - Press this to stop the sequencer and reset the play position to zero. Any time the play 
position becomes zero by any means, tracks will be reset to values shown in their track 
settings. Stop sends all notes off and all sound off on all tracks. This can be used as a panic 
button.

3 record - When this is pressed and the sequencer is playing, midi input, keyboard input, and 
virtual keyboard input will be recorded. The default is to insert events into existing blocks 
only. More advanced behavior is described in the manual section on recording.

4 metronome - A graphical metronome to help keep rhythm.

5 loop toggle - When pressed the song will loop between loop points.

6 configuration - Opens the configuration panel.

7 scope - Opens the midi scope panel.

8 file - Opens the file menu so you can save or load your work.

9 help - Opens the info panel with help docs and song info.


Pattern Editor Widgets

1 piano roll - This canvas area lets you insert, move, resize, copy, and delete notes.

2 virtual keyboard - Lets you see where you are placing the notes. You can also click on it with 
the mouse to play notes. Space bar acts as a sustain pedal. The + button above the virtual keyboard 
does nothing.

3 pattern timeline - Equivalent to the arranger timeline except zero is the start of the block 
rather than the start of the song, and it counts beats rather than measures. Use the mouse to 
set loop endpoints or change the song position.

4 event editor - Shows you the value of many midi messages that are stored in the pattern. By 
default it shows the note on velocity, but you can change that with the mouse wheel or by 
opening the event type menu with the E button on the right. You can also create, delete, or 
modify event values with the mouse.

5 back button - Exist the pattern editor and return to the block arranger.

6 quantization settings - Inserting, moving, and resizing operations will be snapped to the grid 
using granularity chosen by these buttons. The shorter the note length, the smaller the grid 
snap width. Simply imagine placing quarter notes or eighth notes when you click on the canvas. 
Press the blank button to turn off snapping altogether.

7 quantize note on - Quantize the selected notes so they snap to the grid using the current 
quantization settings.

8 quantize note off - This is the same as quantize note on, but it effectively quantizes the 
length of the note.
